# Accounts and Access

## How to get an account :id=access

If you are a SLAC employee, affiliated researcher, or experimental
facility user, you are eligible for an S3DF account. These are the
steps to get into S3DF:

1. If you don't already have a SLAC UNIX account, you'll need to get one:
  * Obtain a SLAC ID via the [SLUO User
Form](https://oraweb4.slac.stanford.edu/apex/epnprod/f?p=134:1)
  * Take Cyber 100 training via the [SLAC training portal](http://training.slac.stanford.edu/web-training.asp)
  * Ask your [SLAC POC](contact-us.md#facpoc) to submit a ticket to SLAC IT requesting a UNIX account. In your request indicate your SLAC ID, and your preferred account name (and second choice).
2. Enable the SLAC UNIX account into S3DF:
  * Log into [coact](https://coact.slac.stanford.edu/) using your SLAC UNIX account and follow the instructions to enable your account into S3DF. If the onboarding fails for any reason, we'll let you know, otherwise you can assume your account will be enabled within 1 hour.

?> In some cases, e.g. for Rubin and LCLS, you may want to ask your
SLAC POC to add your username to the [POSIX
group](contact-us.md#facpoc) that manages access to your facility's
storage space. This is needed because S3DF is not the source of truth
for SLAC POSIX groups. S3DF is working with SLAC IT to deploy a
centralized database that will grant S3DF the ability to modify group
membership.


?> SLAC is currently working on providing federated access to SLAC
resources so that you will be able to authenticate with your home
institution's account as opposed to your SLAC account. We expect
federated authentication to be available in 2023.

## How to connect

There are three mechanisms to access S3DF:

1. **SSH**: You can connect using any SSH client, such as
[OpenSSH](www.openssh.com) or
[PuTTY](https://www.chiark.greenend.org.uk/~sgtatham/putty/), on the
standard TCP port 22, to connect to the S3DF load balanced login pool
`s3dflogin.slac.stanford.edu`.

2. **NoMachine**: NoMachine provides a special remote desktop that is
specifically designed to improve, compared to ssh, the performance of
X11 graphics over slow connection speeds. Another important feature is
that it preserves the state of your desktop across multiple
sessions. The login pool for NoMachine is
`s3dfnx.slac.stanford.edu`. You can find more information about this
access mode in the [NoMachine reference](reference.md#nomachine).

3. **OnDemand**: If you do not have a terminal handy or you want to
use applications like Jupyter, you can also launch a web-based
terminal using OnDemand:\
[`https://s3df.slac.stanford.edu/ondemand`](https://s3df.slac.stanford.edu/ondemand).\
You can find more information about using OnDemand in the [OnDemand
reference](reference.md#ondemand).

![S3DF users access](assets/S3DF_users_access.png)
